**CPSC 481 - Fitness App**  
  
**Course:** CPSC 481 Human Interaction   
**Created By:** Steven Loppe, Deliar Mohammadi, Ryan Parent, Le Khanh Linh Phan, Michael Rediron.  
**Project Description:** A fitness app built to help users monitor and achieve their fitness goals.  

**System Requirements/Dependencies**  
1) Windows 10
2) Visual Studio 2019  

**Technologies Used**
1) C#
2) Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF)
3) Git - Version Control  

**Walkthrough**  
1) Initial App Startup: When the app is first start you will be brought to the main page. The main page will display various health related information such as your calorie goal, remaining calories, calorie progress and steps. The system is currently pre-set with user information for demostration purposes. You will also be able to see a navigation bar with 5 options that will take you the various pages offered by our system these options are Home, Food, Quick Add, Activity, and Profile. You will also see an option to view the step tracker information.
2) Home Navigation Button: This button will allow you to return to the main menu at anytime well navigating the app.
3) Food Navigation Button: This button will direct you to the food page. On the food page you will be able to view food related information such as current calories, macros, and the meals you ate during that day. You will also see two buttons called Create Report and Add Meal.  
    - Create Report Button: This button will direct you the Meals Report page. On this page you will be able to view your calorie intake for the following periods week, month, and year. To change between these modes you click the button for the period you wish to view and it will display the data corresponding to that period.
    - Add Meal Button: This will direct you to the Add Meal page. On this page you will be able to add a meal. At the very top of the page you will see a drop down menu that will allow you to choose your meal type. To use this menu click on the dropdown and then click on the meal type you would like to add. The next you will see is an option to search for food. To use this option click on the textbox and another drop will display various common food at which you can click on to add. You also have the option to to type in the dialog box and it will display foods corresponding to the input you have entered. Once you choose an item it will be displayed in the current foods section. In the current food section you can remove an item by clicking on the x next to the item. To change the quantity of item click on the dropdown beside the food you have chosen and select the desired amount. At the bottom of the page you will see 2 button which you can either cancel the meal you have selected or if you are happy with your selection you can click add meal and it will be saved. You can the view the meal you added on the food page.
4) Quick Add Navigation Button: When you click this it will bring up a pop up button which will give you 2 options to add food or add activity. The purpose of this is to reduce navigation time in case you just you just want to add something quick.
5) Activity Navigation Button: This button will direct you to the Activity page. This page displays the information related to the activities you have added such the calories for a specific date and calories burned on that date. To change between dates click you on the dropdown located at the top of the page and select the date date you wish to view. At the bottom of the page there is 2 buttons labeled create report and add activity.
    - Create Report Button: This button will direct you to the Activity Report page. This page will allow you to view the data related to specific activties you have inputted. To view the data related to a certain activity click on the period you wish to view. Then click on the dropdown menu and select the activity you wish to have information about.
    - Add Activity Button: This button will direct you to the Activity Trcker page. On this page you have the option to tack your activity to enable/disable this feature click the dropdown beside the track distance and select your desired choice. If you have this feature enabled it will track you location and calculate the distance traveled which will then caluclate the amount of calories burned. You also have the option to track the time of your exercise to control this feature click on the reset, start, or pause buttons to get the desired affect. Once you have completed you activity you can click the the finish button where it will direct you to the add activity page where you can confirm and save the activity that you have just completed. If you wish to manually add an activity you also have that option at the bottom of the screen which will directly bring you to the add activity page where you can input your activity information manually.
    - Add Activity Page: When directed to this page if you choose to track you activity the information will be filled out for which you can confirm it is correct. If you choose manual add you can then fill out the information manually. Once your data has been inputted you can click save and stored. The saved information will be viewable on the activity page and it will be included in the activty report. If you decided you do not want to save this information you can click cancel and the information will not be stored.
6) Profile Navigation: When this is click you will be directed to the update profile page. On this page the user can update there personal information that is used to calculated health data such as calorie goals base on what they are trying ot achieve. They are also able to enter their goal information based on the their health goals. The user can change this information as desired.
